Hey guys, welcome back. This lecture is a quick one.
We're going to talk a little bit about habits and
how you use your dummy account correctly.
Now, if you remember, dummy accounts were the other
accounts that were similar to the official ones that
we started that we use to play around with.
We originally set up one at the very
beginning to use it as a sandbox,
also we hadn't decided on a name, so it was easy to just
pick whatever was available and start screwing around with
the user interface on Instagram. Dummy accounts play
into successful habits just as much as the other ones.
Now, there's a reason why we made one. My dummy
account for Innovation Station is @omgtechnology or
@ohsoinnovative - I don't know, I have
several. Now, in the short term,
what we want to do is every time we post, set a quick
habit.Now, the habit would be, before I post, I'm going to
post this on the dummy account first.
OK, now, why would I do that? One, you don't know
how the post looks. If you're not using a template or it's
something you posted before,
you don't know if it's going to come out weird.
It sometimes does, honestly. Sometimes you
shrink down the photo, it looks wrong,
the comment you put gets cut off,
whatever it is. If you put it on the
dummy account, you can see how it is,
make tweaks, and then decide to go
and put it on your main account.
Now, also get in the habit of using your
dummy account to test out new things.
If you want to change your bio link, try that on
your dummy account first. If you want to change your bio text,
try that on your dummy account. If you want to
try a new color or a new style, try that there.
So at first we use the dummy account just
so our main one doesn't look like crap when
we make bad posts, that's it, and then in the intermediate,
we use it to see how new styles work.
Because it doesn't make sense on our official account
to constantly switch from one color to the other,
videos to quote boards, to live action Go Pro shots.
It just doesn't make sense.
We don't want that inconsistency happening.
That is what causes people to unfollow
your account. So, occasionally,
I've seen this. People change up what they did and they start
posting different photos, and all of a sudden people start
disappearing.
For example, I know someone who runs a tour company
and they used to take photos in a very specific place called North
Korea, and built up their entire Instagram following on that,
and then all of a sudden they started
sharing posts of other interesting
places around the world, but they weren't that specific
place, and their follower count slowly just went through
a process of attrition.
They had no idea why,
until they eventually figured it out, but they already
lost like 7,000 followers or something like that.
Also, on the intermediate term, you can try out other things
like types of posts. It's not just a stylistic thing, maybe you
just make a post that's totally different.
Maybe change the tone on a post. Maybe you're
usually funny, in your dummy account
you switch to serious, because we don't really care if there is
consistency in the dummy account, doesn't really matter. What you can do is when you do that and you make a change, let's say you change
the tone or you change the type of content
you post, or the color scheme, or whatever.
You can make a one to one comparison
when you post on both with the engagement rate.
So let's say you decided you want to try motivational
quotes, so you post that on your dummy account.
And when you run a calculation on your engagement rate - if
you don't remember this, it's how many people like your photo
plus how many people comment on it, and then
you divide that by your total followers.
Let's say you did it, and guess what?
You had 4%, that was your engagement rate for your dummy.
Now, if you went back and looked at your
official account, and looked at your video posts,
and on average you're only getting 2.5%,
well then, guess what?
It might be the case that motivational quotes
work and it's worth investigating, and
that's the correct way of testing this out before you jump into the deep end of your main account. Now, the last thing we use the dummy account for
in the long term is for testing new audiences.
That's one thing, the way we follow people, and we'll
set up bots later on to do this for us, is by going to who
we think is a competitor and then
just going after their followers.
But there are other ways of doing this.
Let's say with Innovation Station
I'm targeting people who work in business, call themselves
entrepreneurs, people who consider themselves innovators.
What if it's the case that that's
actually not my best audience?
Their engagement rate is lower than another one and they don't click on my bio link as much. What if I should have been
going after college students?
I don't know, something else. What if I should go after people
who follow DIY, crafts base, and lifestyle tips accounts?
You can do that kind of testing on your dummy.
So if you go to your dummy, what you can do is just
follow a different account, try something else out, try
a different type of person, try to find a person who
matches the new profile and then use the "similar" one to
look at some more accounts, or just go to one of the
accounts that already has a follower base like that and
try just following that, and then post the same exact
posts and see what the engagement rate is.
This is a process that we do over time, and I will show you
follow alongs as I do some of this testing and tweaking,
but what it allows us to do is it allows us to experiment
and try out different things, and you wouldn't be able to
get away with that in your main account,
or you'd take a negative ding, or you'd lose
followers if you tried to do it on the official one.
So we use it as kind of a building platform, we tinker around
here, whatever worked we throw in the actual good one.
Okay, so hopefully that gives you a little bit more insight into
how you should use your dummy accounts and build them into
your habits.
If it doesn't really click for you, that's fine, just watch some of the follow alongs where you'll see me doing it, up to you if you want to
do it. Again, it's up to you guys if you want to optimize
your account to the fullest or you just want, you
know, kind of a tweak to make it better. I personally suggest doing this, but it just depends on your commitment. Alright guys, that's enough about dummy accounts,
next lecture we're going to have a
quick one on curation. See you then.